Test 1
READING
READING PASSAGE 1
You should spend about 20 minutes on Questions 1-13, which are based on Reading
Passage 1 below.
Urban farming
In Paris, urban farmers are trying a soil-free approach to agriculture that uses less
space and fewer resources. Could it help cities face the threats to our food supplies?
On top of a striking new exhibition hall in southern Paris, the world’s largest urban rooftop farm
has started to bear fruit. Strawberries that are small, intensely flavoured and resplendently red
sprout abundantly from large plastic tubes. Peer inside and you see the tubes are completely
hollow, the roots of dozens of strawberry plants dangling down inside them. From identical
vertical tubes nearby burst row upon row of lettuces; near those are aromatic herbs, such as basil,
sage and peppermint. Opposite, in narrow, horizontal trays packed not with soil but with coconut
fibre, grow cherry tomatoes, shiny aubergines and brightly coloured chards.
Pascal Hardy, an engineer and sustainable development consultant, began experimenting with
vertical farming and aeroponic growing towers-as the soil-free plastic tubes are known - on
his Paris apartment block roof five years ago. The urban rooftop space above the exhibition hall
is somewhat bigger: 14,000 square metres and almost exactly the size of a couple of football
pitches. Already, the team of young urban farmers who tend it have picked, in one day, 3,000
lettuces and 150 punnets of strawberries. When the remaining two thirds of the vast open area
are in production, 20 staff will harvest up to 1,000 kg of perhaps 35 different varieties of fruit
and vegetables, every day. ‘We’re not ever, obviously, going to feed the whole city this way,’
cautions Hardy. ‘In the urban environment you’re working with very significant practical
constraints, clearly, on what you can do and where. But if enough unused space can be developed
like this, there’s no reason why you shouldn’t eventually target maybe between 5% and 10%
of consumption.’
Perhaps most significantly, however, this is a real-life showcase for the work of Hardy’s
flourishing urban agriculture consultancy, Agripolis, which is currently fielding enquiries from
around the world to design, build and equip a new breed of soil-free inner-city farm. ‘The
method’s advantages are many,’ he says. ‘First, I don’t much like the fact that most of the fruit
and vegetables we eat have been treated with something like 17 different pesticides, or that
the intensive farming techniques that produced them are such huge generators of greenhouse
16

